Document `fetchLater()` (#39016)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/window/fetchlater/index.md

---
title: "Window: fetchLater() method"
short-title: fetchLater()
slug: Web/API/Window/fetchLater
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.Window.fetchLater
---

{{APIRef("fetchLater API")}}

The **`fetchLater()`** method of the {{domxref("Window")}} interface creates a deferred fetch and returns a {{domxref("FetchLaterResult")}}.

> A `fetchLater()` request is sent once the page is navigated away from (i.e., destroyed or enters the bfcache), or after a provided `activateAfter` timeout — whichever is first.

Reviewer: I'm not sure is "navigated away from" is correct. The tab closing is not exactly "navigated away from". Unloads? Deactivates?

Author: Yeah "navigated away from" is the best I could come up with, but agree it's not 100% correct, hence why I added the clarifying piece in brackets afterwards.

"Unloads" isn't correct either for bfcache instance and "deactivates" is not a common term IMHO and a bit vague.

So I still think "navigated away from (i.e., destroyed or enters the bfcache)" is the best I can come up with for now.

Reviewer: Ok with me !

## Syntax

```js-nolint
fetchLater(resource)
fetchLater(resource, options)
```

### Parameters

The `fetchLater()` method takes all the same parameters as {{domxref("Window.fetch", "fetch()")}}, but with one additional `activateAfter` option.

- `resource`

  - : This defines the resource that you wish to fetch. Identical to {{domxref("Window.fetch", "fetch()")}}, this can either be:

    - A string or any other object with a {{Glossary("stringifier")}} — including a {{domxref("URL")}} object — that provides the URL of the resource you want to fetch. The URL may be relative to the base URL, which is the document's {{domxref("Node.baseURI", "baseURI")}} in a window context.
    - A {{domxref("Request")}} object.

- `options` {{optional_inline}}

  - : A {{domxref("DeferredRequestInit")}} object containing any custom settings that you want to apply to the request, including an `activateAfter` timeout value after which the deferred result should be sent.

### Exceptions

The [same exceptions for `fetch()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/fetch#exceptions) can we raised for `fetchLater()`, along with the following additional exceptions:

- `QuotaExceededError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}

>   - : Use of this feature was blocked due to exceeding the available quota. See [`Quotas`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetchLater_API/fetchLater_quotas) for more details.

Reviewer: Add an important note that caller of the API should be defensive about this one.

---
title: "Window: fetchLater() method"
short-title: fetchLater()
slug: Web/API/Window/fetchLater
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.Window.fetchLater
---

{{APIRef("fetchLater API")}}

The **`fetchLater()`** method of the {{domxref("Window")}} interface creates a deferred fetch and returns a {{domxref("FetchLaterResult")}}.

A `fetchLater()` request is sent once the page is navigated away from (i.e., destroyed or enters the bfcache), or after a provided `activateAfter` timeout — whichever is first.

> `fetchLater()` does not return the result of the fetch (since it is often sent after the document has been destroyed) and the whole response will be ignored, including body and headers. Instead the return result is a {{domxref("FetchLaterResult")}} containg a single `activated` value stating whether the request has been sent yet or not.

Author: The suggested wording reads like the fetch is sent at the same time as the `FetchLaterResult` is returned. But that's not the case. The `FetchLaterResult` is returned immediately, but the fetch is sent later, and that response is ignord.

Tried another rewording instead here:

```suggestion
The `fetchLater()` methods returns a {{domxref("FetchLaterResult")}} object containing a single `activated` value stating whether the request has been sent yet. Note the method does not return the result of the actual fetch when that happens (since it is often sent after the document has been destroyed) and the whole response of the fetch, including body and headers, is ignored.
```

- `RangeError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}

  - : Thrown when a negative `activateAfter` is provided.

- `TypeError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : In addition to the reasons for `fetch()`, this exception will also be thrown for a {{domxref("ReadableStream")}} request (which cannot be deferred) or for use of untrustworthy URLs (such as `http://`).

### Return value

A {{domxref("FetchLaterResult")}} containing an `activated` boolean property indicating if the request has been sent yet or not.

> [!NOTE]
> The response of the actual fetch request once it is sent, including the body and headers, is not made avaialble and will be ignored.

## Examples

The [`fetchLater()` quotas](/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetchLater_API/fetchLater_quotas) article provides examples of how the quotas are applied.

### Defer a `GET` request until page is navigated away from or closed

```js
fetchLater("/send_beacon");
```

### Defer a `POST` request for around one minute

In this example we create a {{domxref("Request")}}, and provide an `activateAfter` value to delay sending the request for 60,000 milliseconds (or one minute):

```js
fetchLater({

>   url: '/send_beacon'

Author: Done.
